Around the world, large shipping branches can receive
literature requests from over 15,000 congregations a month.
When you consider the number of publications and languages
in which these publications are available,
filling these requests could seem daunting.
So how have we adapted to meet this ever-growing demand?
For decades, large conveyor systems were iconic
of our shipping departments.
Literature requests moved along belts and were packaged
by brothers and sisters.
However, conveyors operated only as fast as a slowest worker
and could not expand easily for growth in additional languages.
So, in 2010, the governing body approved a new
shipping arrangement called Pick to Cart.
At first glance, a picking cart might seem
a bit old-fashioned compared to the conveyor system.
However, a closer look reveals a different story.
Once a congregation request is ready to be filled,
a computer program, which was prepared by our brothers,
calculates and assigns all of the publications
to a specific number of cartons.
It stipulates which carton size to use,
where the carton should be placed on the cart,
and which palette it will eventually land on.
How does this information get to the person filling the request?
By means of a wireless network,
information appears on a computer arm terminal
worn by each worker.
Additionally, address labels with barcodes
are printed for each carton.
Cartons are placed on a cart,
according to the direction shown on the arm terminal.
Then, by means of barcode scanning,
the setup of the cart is verified for accuracy.
The arm terminal directs our brother or sister
to the correct pick location,
displays the quantity needed for each item,
and even indicates which box to put the item in.
The barcode on the cart is then scanned for verification,
or possible errors.
Once all of the items are verified,
packing lists are generated automatically.
Barcode scanning verifies the packing list
are placed into the correct carton,
and palettes are prepared for shipment to the congregations.
The picture cart software monitors each pick
from each picking location.
When needed, the software automatically sends
an electronic request to replenish the shells with new literature,
so that the worker always has literature available
to fill congregation requests.
The nine branches currently using
picture cart have already experienced many benefits.
One is speed.
With the use of carts,
individuals can move separately at their own pace.
This has resulted in approximately 100 fewer workers
in branches using picture cart around the world.
Compared to other technologies,
the installation of the picture cart system is inexpensive
and can easily be expanded to support additional publications
and languages.
Previously, in many branches,
each carton had to be double-checked manually before sealing.
However, this step is now eliminated
because of the accuracy of barcode scanning.
The picture cart process has simplified
and unified shipping operations worldwide.
Most importantly,
it fills a vital role in ensuring
that our brothers and sisters in the congregations
receive the exact literature that they request
for use in their preaching work.
The publications put into these carts
are reaching hearts all over the world.
You can call it from cart to heart.